1. what is docker?
A. Docker is an open source containarization platform. It enables developers to package applications into containers.
I used docker to bulid the docker images and then write some docker files and using them to build docker images. once 
done using docker images to run docker containers and push them to registries.

2. How are containers different from virtual machines? 
A. Containers are very lightweight in nature bacause they don't have complete operating system but they have minimal 
system dependencies that are required to run application. 
But in virtual machines if created an EC2 instance we need application and install Java and need Kernal and system 
libraries and complete operating system. 
Ex:- If i'm running a Java application. I need some Java runtime dependency to run the Java application and i just need 
some system libraries that are mandatory to run application. So, these are the three things are basically defined to have 
this very lightweight nature.

3. what is the docker lifecycle? 
A. In my case what i usally do is I start writing a Docker file with the set of instructions that are required to run
the application. And once i feel the docker file is complete I will create Docker image using the docker CLI the command
is Docker build which essentially convert Docker file to Docker image. After that using Docker run command to execute 
container. And finally once container created push them to external registries like Docker Hub or quay.io.

4. what are the different docker components? 
A. The main Docker components are Docker Engine, Docker Client, Docker Daemon, Images, Containers, Registries, 
Dockerfiles, Volumes, and Networks, which together help build, store, deploy, and manage containerized applications.

5. what is the difference between docker COPY and docker ADD? 
A. Docker ADD can copy the files from a URL unlike Docker COPY which can COPY files from host system into the container.

6. what is the difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT? 
A. CLI arguments using the Docker run command will override the aruguments specified using the CMD instruction.

Where as ENTRYPOINT instruction in the shell form will override additional arguments provided using CLI parameters or 
even through the CMD commands.

7. what are the networking types in docker and what is the default? 
A. The defulat networking in Docker is Bridge.
Below are different types of networking and we can change default type.
Bridge, Overlay, Host and MacVlan

8. can you explain how to isolate networking between containers? 
A. 

9. what is a multistage build in docker? 
A. Multistage build allows you to build your docker container in multiple statges allowing to copy artificats from one
stage to other. the major advantage of this is to build light weight containers.

10.	what are distro-less images In docker?
A. Distroless images contain only your application and it's runtime dependencies with a very minimum operating system
libraries. They do not contain package managers, shell or any other programs you would expect to find in standard Linux 
distribution. They are very small and lightweight images.

11.	real-time challenges faced with docker? 
A. - Docker is a single Daemon process. Which can cause a single point of failure, If the docker Daemon goes down for
some reason all the applications are down.

-Docker Daemon runs as root user. Which is security threat. Any processing running as a root can have adverse
effect. When it is comprised for security reasons, it can impact other applications or container on the host.

-Resource containers: If you are running too many containers on a single host, you may experience issues with resource
constraints.  This can result in slow performance or crashes.

12.	what steps would you take to secure the container?
A. Some of the steps are:-
i) Use Distroless or images with not too many packages as your final image in multi stage build, So that there is
less chance of CVE or security issues.

ii) Ensure that the networking is configured properly. This is one of the most common reasons for security issues.
If required configure custom bridge networks and assigns them to isolate containers.

iii) Use utilities like sync to scan your container images.
