Explain your current CI/CD setup? (This question can be ask in multiple ways)
In the current project we are using tools like (Maven, Sonar, AppScan, ArgoCD and Kubernetes) to automate code deployement.
In our current organization we are using GitHub as source code repository when a developer commits the code into the 
source code repository a jenkins pipeline is automatically trigger and this jenkins pipeline will pulls the code from the
source code repository. Once the code pulls and checked out the next step would be bulding this code using Maven. Once 
Maven builds the appliaction next we will verify static code analysis and code quality using Sonar. Using AppScan to perform 
security scan on the application. After that we try to promot this application onto dve environment using ArgoCD and
Kubernates.

What are the different ways to trigger jenkins pipelines ?
There are diffent ways to trigger a Jenkins pipeline:-
-Pole SCM:- Jenkins automatically starts when code is pushed to trigger.
-Build Trigger:- A jobs starts sutomatically after another Jenkins job completes succesfully.
-Webhook Trigger:- GitHub or GitLab sends a webhook to Jenkins when there is code change.

How to backup Jenkins?
To take the backup Jenkins we need to take a backup of the JENKINS_HOME directory because it contains all Jenkins pipeline
jobs, Configurations, plugins, User information, credentials and build history.

tar -cvzf jenkins_backup.tar.gz /var/lib/jenkins

How do you store/secure/handle Secrets in jenkins?
We handle secrets in Jenkins. We store secretes such as passwors, API keys and tokens using the Credentials feature 
instead of hardcoading them in scripts or pipelines.

What is latest version of Jenkins or which version of Jenkins are you using ?
I don't remember the exact Jenkins version right now. But we use LTS version in productions. We use 
regulary upgrade it as part of maintenance and security patching.

What is shared modules in Jenkins ?
Jenkins shared Libraries are reusable code and resources that can be shared across multiple Jenkins pipelines. Instead of
writing the same code in every Jenkins file, We keep common functions in a shared library and resue them in diffenrt projects.

can you use Jenkins to build applications with multiple programming languages using different agents in different stages?
Jenkins supports multiple build agents, which can be used to run build jobs on different platforms and with different 
configurations. By using different agents in different stages of the build process, you can build applications with 
multiple programming languages and ensure that the appropriate tools and libraries are available for each language.

For example, you can use one agent for compiling Java code and another agent for building a Node.js application. 
The agents can be configured to use different operating systems, different versions of programming languages, and 
different libraries and tools.

Jenkins also provides a wide range of plugins that can be used to support multiple programming languages and build 
tools, making it easy to integrate different parts of the build process and manage the dependencies required for each stage.

Overall, Jenkins is a flexible and powerful tool that can be used to build applications with multiple programming 
languages and support different stages of the build process.

How to setup auto-scaling group for Jenkins in AWS?
Here is a high-level overview of how to set up an autoscaling group for Jenkins in Amazon Web Services (AWS):
Steps:-
1. Launch Jenkins master/controller on an EC2 instance
2. Create an AMI for Jenkins agents with required tools (Java, Maven, Docker, etc)
3. Create a launch template using the agent AMI.
4. Create an Auto Sacaling Group (ASG) using the Launch Template.
5. Configure Jenkins to dynamically provision agents from AWS.
6. Set sacling policies based on metrics such as CPU utilization or the number of pending builds.
7. When build demand increases AWS launches more agents. When demand decreases unused agents are terminated.

How to add a new worker node in Jenkins ?
Log into the Jenkins master and navigate to Manage Jenkins > Manage Nodes > New Node. Enter a name 
for the new node and select Permanent Agent. Configure SSH and click on Launch.

How to add a new plugin in Jenkins ?
Using the CLI, java -jar jenkins-cli.jar install-plugin <PLUGIN_NAME>

Using the UI,

Click on the "Manage Jenkins" link in the left-side menu.
Click on the "Manage Plugins" link.

What is JNLP and why is it used in Jenkins ?
In Jenkins, JNLP (Java Network Launch Protocol) is used to allow agents (also known as "slave nodes") to be launched 
and managed remotely by the Jenkins master instance. This allows Jenkins to distribute build tasks to multiple 
agents, providing scalability and improving performance.

When a Jenkins agent is launched using JNLP, it connects to the Jenkins master and receives build tasks, which 
it then executes. The results of the build are then sent back to the master and displayed in the Jenkins user interface.

What are some of the common plugins that you use in Jenkins ?
Most commonly used plugins are:-
Git, Pipeline, Credentials, Maven, SonarQube, Docker and Kubernates, etc..

What is deployment strategy?
What would you do if deployed app is faulty?
Jenkins setup, Bacup and Scaling up?
Can you explain the CICD process in your current project ? or Can you talk about any CICD process that you have implemented ?
What are the different ways to trigger jenkins pipelines ?
How to backup Jenkins ?
How do you store/secure/handle secrets in Jenkins ?
What is latest version of Jenkins or which version of Jenkins are you using ?
What is shared modules in Jenkins ?
can you use Jenkins to build applications with multiple programming languages using different agents in different stages ?
How to setup auto-scaling group for Jenkins in AWS ?
How to add a new worker node in Jenkins ?
How to add a new plugin in Jenkins ?
What is JNLP and why is it used in Jenkins ?
What are some of the common plugins that you use in Jenkins ?
